# musicGen
Neural Network music generator

Resources:

Wavenet: https://github.com/ibab/tensorflow-wavenet

GRUV: https://github.com/MattVitelli/GRUV

Dataset: https://github.com/mdeff/fma

Goals of the project:

The goal of this project is to create a program that produces music generated from a neural net that is trained on a large data set of music which we hope to get from the Free Music Archive (FMA), which has thousands of songs sorted into genres. 

(vague) Steps in the project:

1. We would first like to train the neural network(s) on individual genres and see what the output looks like for the different genres.
2. We want to see how we can optimize the output by:
    -See if we can use a genre classifier to better/further categorize our data
    -Restructuring our data set if desirable
    -Adding new features to our data if possible and compare the outputs from different neural nets, looking into:
        i. which one we should use for the best output
        ii. whether we can superpose the outputs from the different neural nets or see if we want to train our data on multiple networks             simultaneously or at different stages of the process
        iii. fine tuning the network(s)
        iv. modifying our networks via source code
        v. validating the data, which includes throwing out "bad" data
        vi. modifying/introducing new weights in the training process
3. Make a program that spits out music generated by the neural net with a function that could perhaps accept some inputs such as genre, key, tempo, etc.
4. See what postprocessing procedures we can employ in the program to improve output.

Going above and beyond:  
5. We could see if we can produce "hybrid" genres of music by training on a data set composed of different genres or by superposing outputs from different genres, which would require specifying tempo and perhaps key.  
6. See if we can make a UI on the front end that will allow a user to interact with the program, and customize and generate the output, preferably a website.  
7. Look into making our own web archive which includes the data we used plus a way to add new songs to the data set, as well as the ability for users to vote on the genre for a given song and categorize the data in a democratic fashion.  

Our main goal of the project will be to produce the program described herein, however, we will also want to obtain some sort of analysis/insight from what we have done in the project to present at the end.






